So another really good use case for and
this would work iteratively as well
the recursive this would
be a really cool solution.
Let's say you had all of these numbers
here and they were arbitrarily nested,
right, like you can see here,
this 14 here is pretty nested.
You can write this as iterative and you
can unwrap arrays and things like that.
You could also just call a recursive
add call on all of these,
and these would work really well.
So let's actually give
you a shot at doing this.
So I'm gonna go edit here on SandBox.
And we're gonna pop over
to code sandbox here.
And we're gonna go to files.
And we're gonna go to nested edition.
So it's in recursion.
There's one here called
nested arrays.test.js.
And what I want you to do is I want you
to go and write code in a recursive
fashion that takes all the numbers in
the array and adds them together, right.
So this should be 10 + 12 +
14 +1 + 16 + 20 + 10 + 11.
And I want you to use recursion.
So one you can definitely use flat and
that's cheating.
Do not use flatten for this, or flat or
smush depending on when you
started writing JavaScript,
but I don't want you to do that.
I want you to write this with recursion,
so
we're gonna give you just
a bit of time for this.
But just think about first
what's your base case?
In this case your base cases if
you're adding a number right and
not adding an array of arrays
when you recurse more, right?
And then yeah, then you can just go
into return a number at the end.
I remember the first time
I learned recursion and
I was a buddy young lad young
strapping lad in Bountiful, Utah.
My brother would make me write code
before I could play video games.
And just the moment that it clicked for
me is wait,
I call the function inside of itself, the
call is coming from inside the function.
That's funnier than I thought it'd be.
Anyway, I don't know.
It just melts my mind.
It made me feel like I had superpowers.
So it was cool experience for me.
Hopefully it's a cool experience for you.
Imagine some of you probably have written
recursive functions before but for
some of you might be
a really cool experience.
All right, so I'm gonna have ,let
some function, equals 0, and
I'm gonna say 4 let i equals zero,
i is less than array.length.
I plus, plus And I'm going to
say const current = array[i].
And then I'm going to
say if array.isarray.
This is just a nice little helper function
that lets you check if something's
an array.
Then we need to recurse, right?
So when I say sum, plus equals,
whatever comes back from
nested add of current, right?
Else otherwise it's the number you
can assume it's always a number.
Sum plus equals current and we keep
on our merry way with our for loop.
Then down here we're gonna say return sum.
So our base case,
interestingly enough is not at the top.
I would say frequently is at the top.
I would say usually is at the top.
But in this particular case,
it wasn't, okay, but
the base case is here,
which is to say that it's not an array.
Right and then we keep going.
And then here you can see it's gonna
come down with the nested data and
it's gonna call this again and
again until we eventually get our answer.
So let's try this, make sure that it
works the way that we think it should.
And recursion,
nested arrays, and it works.
Now you absolutely totally could
do this with iteration and
just on unpacking arrays that way, but
this is actually a nice elegant solution
that we use this nested add function and
I would say this is totally fine.
You might get a little bit more
performance out of a Iterative solution,
but even for pretty deep arrays
this should be plenty fine.
So any questions about nested AP?
>> What would be the time complexity for
this?
>> Good question.
The time complexity.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah,
so what's the time complexity
of our solution here?
This is an interesting one to model
because the depth of the recursion
is not gonna be dependent on how
long the array is, but the depth of
the recursion is gonna be determined
by how nested these arrays are, right?
So you can see here this
only has of length one but
it's nested a whole bunch, right?
So we'd actually probably have to
introduce some sort of third variable here
or second variable.
So we have n, typically the next
thing you introduce is k, right?
So this would probably be of
complexity n because we would have
certainly have to link loop
over everything in the array,
plus we'd probably have to times it by k,
which would be the depth of recursion.
So n k probably might need
to check me on that one.
It's kind of hard to model some of these
things as big O because some of them
don't lend themselves super well the big
O analysis but that would be my guess